Heidigger: technology has a phenomenological effect on the way you think*	Computer not only an extension of your hand, but an extension of your braino	No longer think about computer being its own entitySuper structural knowledge comes from the baseThe document is a VECTOR from my brain to another brain, not an individual point*	It travels, from my computer, to internet, or from publication, to book store, etc.*	Multiple versions: changes with time constant edits. Which is final copy?o	Ex: poet created 1 version of poem, then 5 years later decides to change it. Which one should be published 100 years later?o	Tenen’s answer: No final version. Continuous motion.*	2 vectors: email, and documento	email stored on email server, document stored on computer hard driveo	problem: where do you store these things? How do you back them up? Where do you share them??	Gmail has 1 encryption, amazon another, etc. INFORMATION OVERLOADo	Vectors pull us in different directions, tough to control vectorso	Google and Amazon take care it for you and take care of backup and storage and search etc.?	Uncomfortable to completely cede controlo	Tenen’s solution: take origin point of all the vectors (email, paper, calendar, etc.) and bring them together?	Ex: cannot search emails, ebooks, documents at the same time. Make them plaintext files so they are readableo	Computer can emulate essentially any machine, (space ship, tractor, etc.)o	Some even think the PHYSICAL layer of the computer should be under your control, don’t use Google’s serversSidenote** Look up how computers are made (physical materials) and politics behind it Begin to think of our activities as a “political founding moment” (Winner)To encrypt something:*	You can password protect PDF file*	What does information mean in world like Africa where internet is accessed by pixelated cell phones and not constant access is there?o	Can’t use pdf format in this caseTry and unify everything in Plaintext formatWhat you use as an editor does not matter unless it produces Plaintext*	Do not want “gunk” in plaintext, which many word processors useo	Microsoft word does not insert “gunk” for no reason, why??	Form and content are one and the same?	Ex: when you make something italic, it visually becomes italic?	Write and form at the same time?	Underneath: code that makes it italic, which is the “gunk”?	If you were to get it published, publishers change back to plaintext and give it to professional typesetters who use other more professional applicationsHTML*	Good because it is human readable *	Does not really separate semantics style and content*	HTML separates them, format is worried about later (e.g. let the browser worry about it)*	Problem: you aren’t going to be writing any papers in HTML, very gunky*	Bold and italic is FORMATTING, not semantico	Have element called emphasis instead of italics to allow user to choose between italics and bold*	There is a governing body of HTML, very politicalo	Microsoft, Google, all includedo	Whoever controls this has huge implications XML: extensible markup languageMarkdown*	Created to o	1. Create a language that is readableo	2. Separate semantics style and contend*	does similar things to HTML LOOK UP Daring FireballLab 2 Notes	9/17/14 11:39 AM	9/17/14 11:39 AM	9/17/14 11:39 AM